# scala-relay

## Relay Modern Tools for Scala.js Folks

There are three parts to this:

- `sbt-scala-relay` - Adds sbt tasks to run the [relay-compiler] and generate Scala.js facades
  (`relayCompiler` and `relayConvert`).
 
  ```sbt
  addSbtPlugin("com.goodcover" % "sbt-scala-relay" % "<version>")
  ```

- `scala-relay-core` - Contains the Scala.js equivalent to relay types as well as the `@graphql` annotation which
  allows GraphQL definitions to be defined inline.

  ```sbt
  libraryDependencies += "com.goodcover" %%% "scala-relay-core" % "<version>"
  ```
  
  > ℹ️ This is added automatically by `sbt-scala-relay`.
 
- `scala-relay-macros` - Contains the `graphqlGen` macro which is similar to the `@graphql` annotation but is able to
  return the type of the GraphQL definition. This also includes an IntelliJ plugin that makes the types available to the
  IDE.

  ```sbt
  libraryDependencies += "com.goodcover" %%% "scala-relay-macros" % "<version>"
  ```

  > ℹ️ This has to be added manually.

## Usage

Add the `sbt-scala-relay` sbt plugin to `project/plugins.sbt`:

```sbt
addSbtPlugin("com.goodcover" % "sbt-scala-relay" % "<version>")
```

Enable the `ScalaRelayPlugin` on your frontend project:

```sbt
enablePlugins(ScalaRelayPlugin)
```

Add the path to the schema:

```sbt
relaySchema := resourceDirectory.value / "graphql" / "schema.graphqls"
```

Optionally specify the command to run `relay-compiler` and include a dependency on the task that installs it. For
example, if you are using [scalajs-bundler] add:

```sbt
relayCompilerCommand := s"node ${(Compile / npmInstallDependencies).value}/node_modules/.bin/relay-compiler"
```

Add the relay dependencies to your node package manager. For `scalajs-bundler` add:
```sbt
Compile / npmDevDependencies ++= (Compile / relayDependencies).value
```

You will need to configure your bundler so that it is able to resolve `@JSImport("__generated__/...")` to the
`relayCompileDirectory`. For example, for webpack you might add:

```javascript
  "resolve": {
    "modules": [
        "node_modules",
        "../../resource_managed/main"
    ]
  }
```

## How it Works

The first task is `relayExtract` which processes all the `@graphql` annotations and `graphqlGen` macros within your
Scala sources (`unmanagedSources`) and extracts the GraphQL definitions into their own `.graphql` file.

The second task is `relayWrap` which takes all the extracted `.graphql` files as well as any others from
`unmanagedResources` and wraps them with the [`graphql` tagged template][graphql-tagged-template] and outputs them as
`.js` files (or `.ts` if `relayTypeScript := true`). We do this because `relay-compiler` is rather fussy about where the
executable definitions come from. The only reliable way to get it to work is to have all your executable definitions
come from the same type of file as the target language.

The final two tasks, `relayConvert` and `relayCompile`, are the main tasks you will interact with and they each depend
on the output of tasks above, `relayExtract` and `relayWrap`, respectively.

`relayConvert` takes all the GraphQL definitions and generates Scala.js facades for them. These are equivalent to the
TypeScript or Flow types that `relay-compiler` produces.

`relayCompile` takes all the GraphQL definitions wrapped with the `graphql` tagged template and passes those to
`relay-compiler`. The resulting sources are imported via `@JSImport("__generated__/...")` annotations from the Scala.js
facades generated by `relayConvert`.

### Multi-project Setup

For an example on multi-project setup, with GraphQL definitions from one project used by another, take a look at the
[multi-project] sbt scripted test.

You need to make `relayConvert` aware of the GraphQL definition from the dependency by setting:

```sbt
Compile / relayGraphQLDependencies ++= (dependencyProject / Compile / relayGraphQLFiles).value
```

> ℹ️ This will add a task dependency on `dependencyProject / Compile / relayExtract`.

Then make `relayCompile` aware of the unmanaged GraphQL definitions:

```sbt
Compile / relayInclude ++= {
  val base = relayBaseDirectory.value.toPath
  (dependencyProject / Compile / unmanagedResourceDirectories).value.map { dir =>
    base.relativize(dir.toPath).toString + "/**"
  }
}
```

As well as the extracted ones:

```sbt
Compile / relayInclude +=
  relayBaseDirectory.value.toPath.relativize((dependencyProject / Compile / relayExtractDirectory).value.toPath).toString + "/**"
```

This does not add a task dependency on `dependencyProject / Compile / relayExtract`. Although technically only
`relayExtra` is required, it is more convenient to depend on `relayCompile` since you will need to run it at some point
before bundling the dependent project:

```sbt
Compile / relayCompile := ((Compile / relayCompile) dependsOn (dependencyProject / Compile / relayCompile)).value
```

Do not forget to update your bundler configuration to also include the `relayCompileDirectory` of the dependency:

```javascript
  "resolve": {
    "modules": [
        "node_modules",
        "../../resource_managed/main",
        "../../../../../../dependencyProject/target/scala-2.13/resource_managed/main",
    ]
  }
```

ℹ️ You should probably use `path.resolve` against the base directory but that is an exercise for you to figure out.
 
### [Change Log](./CHANGELOG.md)

### [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)


[graphql-tagged-template]: https://relay.dev/docs/guides/compiler/#graphql
[multi-project]: sbt-scala-relay/src/sbt-test/relay-compiler/multi-project
[relay-compiler]: https://relay.dev/docs/guides/compiler/
[scalajs-bundler]: https://github.com/scalacenter/scalajs-bundler
